{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 R_Program _Johns Hopkins University    V.V.L\par
Swirl Lesson - 11,vapply and sapply\par
\par
| Would you like to continue with one of these lessons?\par
 \par
1: R Programming lapply and sapply\par
2: No. Let me start something new.\par
 \par
Selection: 2\par
 \par
| Please choose a course, or type 0 to exit swirl.\par
 \par
1: R Programming\par
2: Take me to the swirl course repository!\par
 \par
Selection: 1\par
 \par
| Please choose a lesson, or type 0 to return to course menu.\par
 \par
 1: Basic Building Blocks      2: Workspace and Files     \par
 3: Sequences of Numbers       4: Vectors                 \par
 5: Missing Values             6: Subsetting Vectors      \par
 7: Matrices and Data Frames   8: Logic                   \par
 9: Functions                 10: lapply and sapply       \par
11: vapply and tapply         12: Looking at Data         \par
13: Simulation                14: Dates and Times         \par
15: Base Graphics             \par
 \par
Selection: 11\par
 \par
  |                                                                              |   0%\par
 \par
| In the last lesson, you learned about the two most fundamental members of R's *apply\par
| family of functions: lapply() and sapply(). Both take a list as input, apply a\par
| function to each element of the list, then combine and return the result. lapply()\par
| always returns a list, whereas sapply() attempts to simplify the result.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |===                                                                           |   4%\par
 \par
| In this lesson, you'll learn how to use vapply() and tapply(), each of which serves a\par
| very specific purpose within the Split-Apply-Combine methodology. For consistency,\par
| we'll use the same dataset we used in the 'lapply and sapply' lesson.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |======                                                                        |   8%\par
 \par
| The Flags dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository contains details of\par
| various nations and their flags. More information may be found here:\par
| {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Flags }}{\fldrslt{http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Flags\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |==========                                                                    |  12%\par
 \par
| I've stored the data in a variable called flags. If it's been a while since you\par
| completed the 'lapply and sapply' lesson, you may want to reacquaint yourself with\par
| the data by using functions like dim(), head(), str(), and summary() when you return\par
| to the prompt (>). You can also type viewinfo() at the prompt to bring up some\par
| documentation for the dataset. Let's get started!\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |=============                                                                 |  17%\par
 \par
| As you saw in the last lesson, the unique() function returns a vector of the unique\par
| values contained in the object passed to it. Therefore, sapply(flags, unique) returns\par
| a list containing one vector of unique values for each column of the flags dataset.\par
| Try it again now.\par
 \par
> sapply(flags, unique)\par
$name\par
  [1] Afghanistan              Albania                  Algeria                 \par
  [4] American-Samoa           Andorra                  Angola                  \par
  [7] Anguilla                 Antigua-Barbuda          Argentina               \par
 [10] Argentine                Australia                Austria                 \par
 [13] Bahamas                  Bahrain                  Bangladesh              \par
 [16] Barbados                 Belgium                  Belize                  \par
 [19] Benin                    Bermuda                  Bhutan                  \par
 [22] Bolivia                  Botswana                 Brazil                  \par
 [25] British-Virgin-Isles     Brunei                   Bulgaria                \par
 [28] Burkina                  Burma                    Burundi                 \par
 [31] Cameroon                 Canada                   Cape-Verde-Islands      \par
 [34] Cayman-Islands           Central-African-Republic Chad                    \par
 [37] Chile                    China                    Colombia                \par
 [40] Comorro-Islands          Congo                    Cook-Islands            \par
 [43] Costa-Rica               Cuba                     Cyprus                  \par
 [46] Czechoslovakia           Denmark                  Djibouti                \par
 [49] Dominica                 Dominican-Republic       Ecuador                 \par
 [52] Egypt                    El-Salvador              Equatorial-Guinea       \par
 [55] Ethiopia                 Faeroes                  Falklands-Malvinas      \par
 [58] Fiji                     Finland                  France                  \par
 [61] French-Guiana            French-Polynesia         Gabon                   \par
 [64] Gambia                   Germany-DDR              Germany-FRG             \par
 [67] Ghana                    Gibraltar                Greece                  \par
 [70] Greenland                Grenada                  Guam                    \par
 [73] Guatemala                Guinea                   Guinea-Bissau           \par
 [76] Guyana                   Haiti                    Honduras                \par
 [79] Hong-Kong                Hungary                  Iceland                 \par
 [82] India                    Indonesia                Iran                    \par
 [85] Iraq                     Ireland                  Israel                  \par
 [88] Italy                    Ivory-Coast              Jamaica                 \par
 [91] Japan                    Jordan                   Kampuchea               \par
 [94] Kenya                    Kiribati                 Kuwait                  \par
 [97] Laos                     Lebanon                  Lesotho                 \par
[100] Liberia                  Libya                    Liechtenstein           \par
[103] Luxembourg               Malagasy                 Malawi                  \par
[106] Malaysia                 Maldive-Islands          Mali                    \par
[109] Malta                    Marianas                 Mauritania              \par
[112] Mauritius                Mexico                   Micronesia              \par
[115] Monaco                   Mongolia                 Montserrat              \par
[118] Morocco                  Mozambique               Nauru                   \par
[121] Nepal                    Netherlands              Netherlands-Antilles    \par
[124] New-Zealand              Nicaragua                Niger                   \par
[127] Nigeria                  Niue                     North-Korea             \par
[130] North-Yemen              Norway                   Oman                    \par
[133] Pakistan                 Panama                   Papua-New-Guinea        \par
[136] Parguay                  Peru                     Philippines             \par
[139] Poland                   Portugal                 Puerto-Rico             \par
[142] Qatar                    Romania                  Rwanda                  \par
[145] San-Marino               Sao-Tome                 Saudi-Arabia            \par
[148] Senegal                  Seychelles               Sierra-Leone            \par
[151] Singapore                Soloman-Islands          Somalia                 \par
[154] South-Africa             South-Korea              South-Yemen             \par
[157] Spain                    Sri-Lanka                St-Helena               \par
[160] St-Kitts-Nevis           St-Lucia                 St-Vincent              \par
[163] Sudan                    Surinam                  Swaziland               \par
[166] Sweden                   Switzerland              Syria                   \par
[169] Taiwan                   Tanzania                 Thailand                \par
[172] Togo                     Tonga                    Trinidad-Tobago         \par
[175] Tunisia                  Turkey                   Turks-Cocos-Islands     \par
[178] Tuvalu                   UAE                      Uganda                  \par
[181] UK                       Uruguay                  US-Virgin-Isles         \par
[184] USA                      USSR                     Vanuatu                 \par
[187] Vatican-City             Venezuela                Vietnam                 \par
[190] Western-Samoa            Yugoslavia               Zaire                   \par
[193] Zambia                   Zimbabwe                \par
194 Levels: Afghanistan Albania Algeria American-Samoa Andorra Angola ... Zimbabwe\par
 \par
$landmass\par
[1] 5 3 4 6 1 2\par
 \par
$zone\par
[1] 1 3 2 4\par
 \par
$area\par
  [1]   648    29  2388     0  1247  2777  7690    84    19     1   143    31    23\par
 [14]   113    47  1099   600  8512     6   111   274   678    28   474  9976     4\par
 [27]   623  1284   757  9561  1139     2   342    51   115     9   128    43    22\par
 [40]    49   284  1001    21  1222    12    18   337   547    91   268    10   108\par
 [53]   249   239   132  2176   109   246    36   215   112    93   103  3268  1904\par
 [66]  1648   435    70   301   323    11   372    98   181   583   236    30  1760\par
 [79]     3   587   118   333  1240  1031  1973  1566   447   783   140    41  1267\par
 [92]   925   121   195   324   212   804    76   463   407  1285   300   313    92\par
[105]   237    26  2150   196    72   637  1221    99   288   505    66  2506    63\par
[118]    17   450   185   945   514    57     5   164   781   245   178  9363 22402\par
[131]    15   912   256   905   753   391\par
 \par
$population\par
 [1]   16    3   20    0    7   28   15    8   90   10    1    6  119    9   35    4\par
[17]   24    2   11 1008    5   47   31   54   17   61   14  684  157   39   57  118\par
[33]   13   77   12   56   18   84   48   36   22   29   38   49   45  231  274   60\par
 \par
$language\par
 [1] 10  6  8  1  2  4  3  5  7  9\par
 \par
$religion\par
[1] 2 6 1 0 5 3 4 7\par
 \par
$bars\par
[1] 0 2 3 1 5\par
 \par
$stripes\par
 [1]  3  0  2  1  5  9 11 14  4  6 13  7\par
 \par
$colours\par
[1] 5 3 2 8 6 4 7 1\par
 \par
$red\par
[1] 1 0\par
 \par
$green\par
[1] 1 0\par
 \par
$blue\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$gold\par
[1] 1 0\par
 \par
$white\par
[1] 1 0\par
 \par
$black\par
[1] 1 0\par
 \par
$orange\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$mainhue\par
[1] green  red    blue   gold   white  orange black  brown \par
Levels: black blue brown gold green orange red white\par
 \par
$circles\par
[1] 0 1 4 2\par
 \par
$crosses\par
[1] 0 1 2\par
 \par
$saltires\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$quarters\par
[1] 0 1 4\par
 \par
$sunstars\par
 [1]  1  0  6 22 14  3  4  5 15 10  7  2  9 50\par
 \par
$crescent\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$triangle\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$icon\par
[1] 1 0\par
 \par
$animate\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$text\par
[1] 0 1\par
 \par
$topleft\par
[1] black  red    green  blue   white  orange gold  \par
Levels: black blue gold green orange red white\par
 \par
$botright\par
[1] green  red    white  black  blue   gold   orange brown \par
Levels: black blue brown gold green orange red white\par
 \par
 \par
| You got it right!\par
 \par
  |================                                                              |  21%\par
 \par
| What if you had forgotten how unique() works and mistakenly thought it returns the\par
| *number* of unique values contained in the object passed to it? Then you might have\par
| incorrectly expected sapply(flags, unique) to return a numeric vector, since each\par
| element of the list returned would contain a single number and sapply() could then\par
| simplify the result to a vector.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |====================                                                          |  25%\par
 \par
| When working interactively (at the prompt), this is not much of a problem, since you\par
| see the result immediately and will quickly recognize your mistake. However, when\par
| working non-interactively (e.g. writing your own functions), a misunderstanding may\par
| go undetected and cause incorrect results later on. Therefore, you may wish to be\par
| more careful and that's where vapply() is useful.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |=======================                                                       |  29%\par
 \par
| Whereas sapply() tries to 'guess' the correct format of the result, vapply() allows\par
| you to specify it explicitly. If the result doesn't match the format you specify,\par
| vapply() will throw an error, causing the operation to stop. This can prevent\par
| significant problems in your code that might be caused by getting unexpected return\par
| values from sapply().\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |==========================                                                    |  33%\par
 \par
| Try vapply(flags, unique, numeric(1)), which says that you expect each element of the\par
| result to be a numeric vector of length 1. Since this is NOT actually the case, YOU\par
| WILL GET AN ERROR. Once you get the error, type ok() to continue to the next\par
| question.\par
 \par
> vapply(flags, unique, numeric(1))\par
Error in vapply(flags, unique, numeric(1)) : values must be length 1,\par
 but FUN(X[[1]]) result is length 194\par
> ok()\par
 \par
| Excellent job!\par
 \par
  |=============================                                                 |  38%\par
 \par
| Recall from the previous lesson that sapply(flags, class) will return a character\par
| vector containing the class of each column in the dataset. Try that again now to see\par
| the result.\par
 \par
> sapply(flags, class)\par
      name   landmass       zone       area population   language   religion       bars \par
  "factor"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer" \par
   stripes    colours        red      green       blue       gold      white      black \par
 "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer" \par
    orange    mainhue    circles    crosses   saltires   quarters   sunstars   crescent \par
 "integer"   "factor"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer" \par
  triangle       icon    animate       text    topleft   botright \par
 "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"   "factor"   "factor" \par
 \par
| You're the best!\par
 \par
  |================================                                              |  42%\par
 \par
| If we wish to be explicit about the format of the result we expect, we can use\par
| vapply(flags, class, character(1)). The 'character(1)' argument tells R that we\par
| expect the class function to return a character vector of length 1 when applied to\par
| EACH column of the flags dataset. Try it now.\par
 \par
> vapply(flags, class, character(1))\par
      name   landmass       zone       area population   language   religion       bars \par
  "factor"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer" \par
   stripes    colours        red      green       blue       gold      white      black \par
 "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer" \par
    orange    mainhue    circles    crosses   saltires   quarters   sunstars   crescent \par
 "integer"   "factor"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer" \par
  triangle       icon    animate       text    topleft   botright \par
 "integer"  "integer"  "integer"  "integer"   "factor"   "factor" \par
 \par
| Keep up the great work!\par
 \par
  |====================================                                          |  46%\par
 \par
| Note that since our expectation was correct (i.e. character(1)), the vapply() result\par
| is identical to the sapply() result -- a character vector of column classes.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |=======================================                                       |  50%\par
 \par
| You might think of vapply() as being 'safer' than sapply(), since it requires you to\par
| specify the format of the output in advance, instead of just allowing R to 'guess'\par
| what you wanted. In addition, vapply() may perform faster than sapply() for large\par
| datasets. However, when doing data analysis interactively (at the prompt), sapply()\par
| saves you some typing and will often be good enough.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |==========================================                                    |  54%\par
 \par
| As a data analyst, you'll often wish to split your data up into groups based on the\par
| value of some variable, then apply a function to the members of each group. The next\par
| function we'll look at, tapply(), does exactly that.\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |=============================================                                 |  58%\par
 \par
| Use ?tapply to pull up the documentation.\par
 \par
> ?tapply\par
 \par
| You are really on a roll!\par
 \par
  |=================================================                             |  62%\par
 \par
| The 'landmass' variable in our dataset takes on integer values between 1 and 6, each\par
| of which represents a different part of the world. Use table(flags$landmass) to see\par
| how many flags/countries fall into each group.\par
 \par
> table(flags$landmass)\par
 \par
 1  2  3  4  5  6 \par
31 17 35 52 39 20 \par
 \par
| You are quite good my friend!\par
 \par
  |====================================================                          |  67%\par
 \par
| The 'animate' variable in our dataset takes the value 1 if a country's flag contains\par
| an animate image (e.g. an eagle, a tree, a human hand) and 0 otherwise. Use\par
| table(flags$animate) to see how many flags contain an animate image.\par
 \par
> table(flags$animate)\par
 \par
  0   1 \par
155  39 \par
 \par
| That's correct!\par
 \par
  |=======================================================                       |  71%\par
 \par
| This tells us that 39 flags contain an animate object (animate = 1) and 155 do not\par
| (animate = 0).\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |==========================================================                    |  75%\par
 \par
| If you take the arithmetic mean of a bunch of 0s and 1s, you get the proportion of\par
| 1s. Use tapply(flags$animate, flags$landmass, mean) to apply the mean function to the\par
| 'animate' variable separately for each of the six landmass groups, thus giving us the\par
| proportion of flags containing an animate image WITHIN each landmass group.\par
 \par
> tapply(flags$animate, flag$landmass, mean)\par
Error in tapply(flags$animate, flag$landmass, mean) : \par
  object 'flag' not found\par
> tapply(flags$animate, flags$landmass, mean)\par
        1         2         3         4         5         6 \par
0.4193548 0.1764706 0.1142857 0.1346154 0.1538462 0.3000000 \par
 \par
| Keep working like that and you'll get there!\par
 \par
  |==============================================================                |  79%\par
 \par
| The first landmass group (landmass = 1) corresponds to North America and contains the\par
| highest proportion of flags with an animate image (0.4194).\par
 \par
...\par
 \par
  |=================================================================             |  83%\par
 \par
| Similarly, we can look at a summary of population values (in round millions) for\par
| countries with and without the color red on their flag with tapply(flags$population,\par
| flags$red, summary).\par
 \par
> tapply(flags$population, flags$red, summary)\par
$`0`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
   0.00    0.00    3.00   27.63    9.00  684.00 \par
 \par
$`1`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
    0.0     0.0     4.0    22.1    15.0  1008.0 \par
 \par
 \par
| You are amazing!\par
 \par
  |====================================================================          |  88%\par
 \par
| What is the median population (in millions) for countries *without* the color red on\par
| their flag?\par
 \par
1: 4.0\par
2: 22.1\par
3: 9.0\par
4: 27.6\par
5: 3.0\par
6: 0.0\par
 \par
Selection: 5\par
 \par
| You are really on a roll!\par
 \par
  |========================================================================      |  92%\par
 \par
| Lastly, use the same approach to look at a summary of population values for each of\par
| the six landmasses.\par
 \par
> tapply(flags$population, flags$landmass, summary)\par
$`1`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
   0.00    0.00    0.00   12.29    4.50  231.00 \par
 \par
$`2`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
   0.00    1.00    6.00   15.71   15.00  119.00 \par
 \par
$`3`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
   0.00    0.00    8.00   13.86   16.00   61.00 \par
 \par
$`4`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
  0.000   1.000   5.000   8.788   9.750  56.000 \par
 \par
$`5`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
   0.00    2.00   10.00   69.18   39.00 1008.00 \par
 \par
$`6`\par
   Min. 1st Qu.  Median    Mean 3rd Qu.    Max. \par
   0.00    0.00    0.00   11.30    1.25  157.00 \par
 \par
 \par
| Keep up the great work!\par
 \par
  |===========================================================================   |  96%\par
 \par
| What is the maximum population (in millions) for the fourth landmass group (Africa)?\par
 \par
1: 5.00\par
2: 56.00\par
3: 1010.0\par
4: 157.00\par
5: 119.0\par
 \par
Selection: 2\par
 \par
| That's correct!\par
 \par
  |==============================================================================| 100%\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
}
 