{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.14393}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 R_ Programm_Johns Hopkins University  -  Lakshmi Vaka\par
swirl Lesson - 12, Looking Data\par
\par
| Please choose a course, or type 0 to exit swirl.\par
1: R Programming\par
2: Take me to the swirl course repository!\par
Selection: 1\par
| Please choose a lesson, or type 0 to return to course menu.\par
 1: Basic Building Blocks      2: Workspace and Files     \par
 3: Sequences of Numbers       4: Vectors                 \par
 5: Missing Values             6: Subsetting Vectors      \par
 7: Matrices and Data Frames   8: Logic                   \par
 9: Functions                 10: lapply and sapply       \par
11: vapply and tapply         12: Looking at Data         \par
13: Simulation                14: Dates and Times         \par
15: Base Graphics             \par
Selection: 12\par
  |                                                          |   0%\par
| Whenever you're working with a new dataset, the first thing you\par
| should do is look at it! What is the format of the data? What are\par
| the dimensions? What are the variable names? How are the\par
| variables stored? Are there missing data? Are there any flaws in\par
| the data?\par
...\par
  |==                                                        |   4%\par
| This lesson will teach you how to answer these questions and more\par
| using R's built-in functions. We'll be using a dataset\par
| constructed from the United States Department of Agriculture's\par
| PLANTS Database ({{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://plants.usda.gov/adv_search.html }}{\fldrslt{http://plants.usda.gov/adv_search.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 ).\par
...\par
  |=====                                                     |   8%\par
| I've stored the data for you in a variable called plants. Type\par
| ls() to list the variables in your workspace, among which should\par
| be plants.\par
> ls()\par
 [1] "%p%"             "beer"            "beer.counts"    \par
 [4] "boring_function" "cls_list"        "cls_vect"       \par
 [7] "cnames"          "data"            "evaluate"       \par
[10] "flag_colors"     "flag_shapes"     "flags"          \par
[13] "ints"            "mad_libs"        "my_char"        \par
[16] "my_data"         "my_div"          "my_matrix"      \par
[19] "my_matrix2"      "my_mean"         "my_na"          \par
[22] "my_name"         "my_seq"          "my_sqrt"        \par
[25] "my_vector"       "num_vect"        "old.dir"        \par
[28] "patients"        "plants"          "remainder"      \par
[31] "sals"            "scores"          "shape_mat"      \par
[34] "telegram"        "tf"              "unique_vals"    \par
[37] "vect"            "vect2"           "viewinfo"       \par
[40] "x"               "y"               "z"              \par
| That's the answer I was looking for.\par
  |=======                                                   |  12%\par
| Let's begin by checking the class of the plants variable with\par
| class(plants). This will give us a clue as to the overall\par
| structure of the data.\par
> class(plants)\par
[1] "data.frame"\par
| All that hard work is paying off!\par
  |=========                                                 |  16%\par
| It's very common for data to be stored in a data frame. It is the\par
| default class for data read into R using functions like\par
| read.csv() and read.table(), which you'll learn about in another\par
| lesson.\par
...\par
  |============                                              |  20%\par
| Since the dataset is stored in a data frame, we know it is\par
| rectangular. In other words, it has two dimensions (rows and\par
| columns) and fits neatly into a table or spreadsheet. Use\par
| dim(plants) to see exactly how many rows and columns we're\par
| dealing with.\par
> dim(plants)\par
[1] 5166   10\par
| All that practice is paying off!\par
  |==============                                            |  24%\par
| The first number you see (5166) is the number of rows\par
| (observations) and the second number (10) is the number of\par
| columns (variables).\par
...\par
  |================                                          |  28%\par
| You can also use nrow(plants) to see only the number of rows. Try\par
| it out.\par
> nrow(plants)\par
[1] 5166\par
| Nice work!\par
  |===================                                       |  32%\par
| ... And ncol(plants) to see only the number of columns.\par
> ncol(plants)\par
[1] 10\par
| Keep working like that and you'll get there!\par
  |=====================                                     |  36%\par
| If you are curious as to how much space the dataset is occupying\par
| in memory, you can use object.size(plants).\par
> object.size(plants)\par
644232 bytes\par
| All that practice is paying off!\par
  |=======================                                   |  40%\par
| Now that we have a sense of the shape and size of the dataset,\par
| let's get a feel for what's inside. names(plants) will return a\par
| character vector of column (i.e. variable) names. Give it a shot.\par
> names(plants)\par
 [1] "Scientific_Name"      "Duration"            \par
 [3] "Active_Growth_Period" "Foliage_Color"       \par
 [5] "pH_Min"               "pH_Max"              \par
 [7] "Precip_Min"           "Precip_Max"          \par
 [9] "Shade_Tolerance"      "Temp_Min_F"          \par
| Keep working like that and you'll get there!\par
  |==========================                                |  44%\par
| We've applied fairly descriptive variable names to this dataset,\par
| but that won't always be the case. A logical next step is to peek\par
| at the actual data. However, our dataset contains over 5000\par
| observations (rows), so it's impractical to view the whole thing\par
| all at once.\par
...\par
  |============================                              |  48%\par
| The head() function allows you to preview the top of the dataset.\par
| Give it a try with only one argument.\par
> head(plants)\par
               Scientific_Name          Duration\par
1                  Abelmoschus              <NA>\par
2       Abelmoschus esculentus Annual, Perennial\par
3                        Abies              <NA>\par
4               Abies balsamea         Perennial\par
5 Abies balsamea var. balsamea         Perennial\par
6                     Abutilon              <NA>\par
  Active_Growth_Period Foliage_Color pH_Min pH_Max Precip_Min\par
1                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
2                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
3                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
4    Spring and Summer         Green      4      6         13\par
5                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
6                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
  Precip_Max Shade_Tolerance Temp_Min_F\par
1         NA            <NA>         NA\par
2         NA            <NA>         NA\par
3         NA            <NA>         NA\par
4         60        Tolerant        -43\par
5         NA            <NA>         NA\par
6         NA            <NA>         NA\par
| All that practice is paying off!\par
  |==============================                            |  52%\par
| Take a minute to look through and understand the output above.\par
| Each row is labeled with the observation number and each column\par
| with the variable name. Your screen is probably not wide enough\par
| to view all 10 columns side-by-side, in which case R displays as\par
| many columns as it can on each line before continuing on the\par
| next.\par
...\par
  |================================                          |  56%\par
| By default, head() shows you the first six rows of the data. You\par
| can alter this behavior by passing as a second argument the\par
| number of rows you'd like to view. Use head() to preview the\par
| first 10 rows of plants.\par
> head(plants, n = 10)\par
                     Scientific_Name          Duration\par
1                        Abelmoschus              <NA>\par
2             Abelmoschus esculentus Annual, Perennial\par
3                              Abies              <NA>\par
4                     Abies balsamea         Perennial\par
5       Abies balsamea var. balsamea         Perennial\par
6                           Abutilon              <NA>\par
7               Abutilon theophrasti            Annual\par
8                             Acacia              <NA>\par
9                  Acacia constricta         Perennial\par
10 Acacia constricta var. constricta         Perennial\par
   Active_Growth_Period Foliage_Color pH_Min pH_Max Precip_Min\par
1                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
2                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
3                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
4     Spring and Summer         Green      4    6.0         13\par
5                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
6                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
7                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
8                  <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
9     Spring and Summer         Green      7    8.5          4\par
10                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
   Precip_Max Shade_Tolerance Temp_Min_F\par
1          NA            <NA>         NA\par
2          NA            <NA>         NA\par
3          NA            <NA>         NA\par
4          60        Tolerant        -43\par
5          NA            <NA>         NA\par
6          NA            <NA>         NA\par
7          NA            <NA>         NA\par
8          NA            <NA>         NA\par
9          20      Intolerant        -13\par
10         NA            <NA>         NA\par
| You are really on a roll!\par
  |===================================                       |  60%\par
| The same applies for using tail() to preview the end of the\par
| dataset. Use tail() to view the last 15 rows.\par
> tail(plants, n = 15)\par
                      Scientific_Name  Duration\par
5152                          Zizania      <NA>\par
5153                 Zizania aquatica    Annual\par
5154   Zizania aquatica var. aquatica    Annual\par
5155                Zizania palustris    Annual\par
5156 Zizania palustris var. palustris    Annual\par
5157                      Zizaniopsis      <NA>\par
5158             Zizaniopsis miliacea Perennial\par
5159                            Zizia      <NA>\par
5160                     Zizia aptera Perennial\par
5161                      Zizia aurea Perennial\par
5162                 Zizia trifoliata Perennial\par
5163                          Zostera      <NA>\par
5164                   Zostera marina Perennial\par
5165                           Zoysia      <NA>\par
5166                  Zoysia japonica Perennial\par
     Active_Growth_Period Foliage_Color pH_Min pH_Max Precip_Min\par
5152                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5153               Spring         Green    6.4    7.4         30\par
5154                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5155                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5156                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5157                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5158    Spring and Summer         Green    4.3    9.0         35\par
5159                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5160                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5161                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5162                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5163                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5164                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5165                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
5166                 <NA>          <NA>     NA     NA         NA\par
     Precip_Max Shade_Tolerance Temp_Min_F\par
5152         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5153         50      Intolerant         32\par
5154         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5155         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5156         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5157         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5158         70      Intolerant         12\par
5159         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5160         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5161         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5162         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5163         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5164         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5165         NA            <NA>         NA\par
5166         NA            <NA>         NA\par
| Excellent job!\par
  |=====================================                     |  64%\par
| After previewing the top and bottom of the data, you probably\par
| noticed lots of NAs, which are R's placeholders for missing\par
| values. Use summary(plants) to get a better feel for how each\par
| variable is distributed and how much of the dataset is missing.\par
> summary(plants)\par
                     Scientific_Name              Duration   \par
 Abelmoschus                 :   1   Perennial        :3031  \par
 Abelmoschus esculentus      :   1   Annual           : 682  \par
 Abies                       :   1   Annual, Perennial: 179  \par
 Abies balsamea              :   1   Annual, Biennial :  95  \par
 Abies balsamea var. balsamea:   1   Biennial         :  57  \par
 Abutilon                    :   1   (Other)          :  92  \par
 (Other)                     :5160   NA's             :1030  \par
           Active_Growth_Period      Foliage_Color      pH_Min     \par
 Spring and Summer   : 447      Dark Green  :  82   Min.   :3.000  \par
 Spring              : 144      Gray-Green  :  25   1st Qu.:4.500  \par
 Spring, Summer, Fall:  95      Green       : 692   Median :5.000  \par
 Summer              :  92      Red         :   4   Mean   :4.997  \par
 Summer and Fall     :  24      White-Gray  :   9   3rd Qu.:5.500  \par
 (Other)             :  30      Yellow-Green:  20   Max.   :7.000  \par
 NA's                :4334      NA's        :4334   NA's   :4327   \par
     pH_Max         Precip_Min      Precip_Max    \par
 Min.   : 5.100   Min.   : 4.00   Min.   : 16.00  \par
 1st Qu.: 7.000   1st Qu.:16.75   1st Qu.: 55.00  \par
 Median : 7.300   Median :28.00   Median : 60.00  \par
 Mean   : 7.344   Mean   :25.57   Mean   : 58.73  \par
 3rd Qu.: 7.800   3rd Qu.:32.00   3rd Qu.: 60.00  \par
 Max.   :10.000   Max.   :60.00   Max.   :200.00  \par
 NA's   :4327     NA's   :4338    NA's   :4338    \par
     Shade_Tolerance   Temp_Min_F    \par
 Intermediate: 242   Min.   :-79.00  \par
 Intolerant  : 349   1st Qu.:-38.00  \par
 Tolerant    : 246   Median :-33.00  \par
 NA's        :4329   Mean   :-22.53  \par
                     3rd Qu.:-18.00  \par
                     Max.   : 52.00  \par
                     NA's   :4328    \par
| All that practice is paying off!\par
  |=======================================                   |  68%\par
| summary() provides different output for each variable, depending\par
| on its class. For numeric data such as Precip_Min, summary()\par
| displays the minimum, 1st quartile, median, mean, 3rd quartile,\par
| and maximum. These values help us understand how the data are\par
| distributed.\par
...\par
  |==========================================                |  72%\par
| For categorical variables (called 'factor' variables in R),\par
| summary() displays the number of times each value (or 'level')\par
| occurs in the data. For example, each value of Scientific_Name\par
| only appears once, since it is unique to a specific plant. In\par
| contrast, the summary for Duration (also a factor variable) tells\par
| us that our dataset contains 3031 Perennial plants, 682 Annual\par
| plants, etc.\par
...\par
  |============================================              |  76%\par
| You can see that R truncated the summary for Active_Growth_Period\par
| by including a catch-all category called 'Other'. Since it is a\par
| categorical/factor variable, we can see how many times each value\par
| actually occurs in the data with\par
| table(plants$Active_Growth_Period).\par
> table(plants$Active_Growth_Period)\par
Fall, Winter and Spring                  Spring \par
                     15                     144 \par
        Spring and Fall       Spring and Summer \par
                     10                     447 \par
   Spring, Summer, Fall                  Summer \par
                     95                      92 \par
        Summer and Fall              Year Round \par
                     24                       5 \par
| All that hard work is paying off!\par
  |==============================================            |  80%\par
| Each of the functions we've introduced so far has its place in\par
| helping you to better understand the structure of your data.\par
| However, we've left the best for last....\par
...\par
  |=================================================         |  84%\par
| Perhaps the most useful and concise function for understanding\par
| the *str*ucture of your data is str(). Give it a try now.\par
> str(plants)\par
'data.frame': 5166 obs. of  10 variables:\par
 $ Scientific_Name     : Factor w/ 5166 levels "Abelmoschus",..: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ...\par
 $ Duration            : Factor w/ 8 levels "Annual","Annual, Biennial",..: NA 4 NA 7 7 NA 1 NA 7 7 ...\par
 $ Active_Growth_Period: Factor w/ 8 levels "Fall, Winter and Spring",..: NA NA NA 4 NA NA NA NA 4 NA ...\par
 $ Foliage_Color       : Factor w/ 6 levels "Dark Green","Gray-Green",..: NA NA NA 3 NA NA NA NA 3 NA ...\par
 $ pH_Min              : num  NA NA NA 4 NA NA NA NA 7 NA ...\par
 $ pH_Max              : num  NA NA NA 6 NA NA NA NA 8.5 NA ...\par
 $ Precip_Min          : int  NA NA NA 13 NA NA NA NA 4 NA ...\par
 $ Precip_Max          : int  NA NA NA 60 NA NA NA NA 20 NA ...\par
 $ Shade_Tolerance     : Factor w/ 3 levels "Intermediate",..: NA NA NA 3 NA NA NA NA 2 NA ...\par
 $ Temp_Min_F          : int  NA NA NA -43 NA NA NA NA -13 NA ...\par
| Keep up the great work!\par
  |===================================================       |  88%\par
| The beauty of str() is that it combines many of the features of\par
| the other functions you've already seen, all in a concise and\par
| readable format. At the very top, it tells us that the class of\par
| plants is 'data.frame' and that it has 5166 observations and 10\par
| variables. It then gives us the name and class of each variable,\par
| as well as a preview of its contents.\par
...\par
  |=====================================================     |  92%\par
| str() is actually a very general function that you can use on\par
| most objects in R. Any time you want to understand the structure\par
| of something (a dataset, function, etc.), str() is a good place\par
| to start.\par
...\par
  |========================================================  |  96%\par
| In this lesson, you learned how to get a feel for the structure\par
| and contents of a new dataset using a collection of simple and\par
| useful functions. Taking the time to do this upfront can save you\par
| time and frustration later on in your analysis.\par
...\par
  |==========================================================| 100%\par
  \par
}
 